# Gemini Operon

## Software Requirements

1. **Node.js** v20.11.0 or above
2. **PostgreSQL** 16

## Installation Instructions

1. **Clone the Git repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Roy-C4/Gemini_Operon.git
   ```
2. **Create a database in PostgreSQL:**

   - Name the database `operon`.

3. **Restore the Database Backup:**

   - Locate the `db_backup` folder in the cloned repository.
   - Use the following command to restore the backup:
     ```bash
     psql -U <your_postgresql_username> -d operon -f db_backup/backup_file.sql
     ```

4. **Set up environment variables for the server:**

   - Inside the `server` folder, create a `.env` file with the following content:
     ```
     jwtSecret=<your_jwt_secret>
     dbPassUp=<your_postgresql_password>
     dbPortUp=<your_postgresql_port>
     dbHostUp=<your_postgresql_host>
     dbNameUp="operon"
     dbUserUp=<your_postgresql_username>
     API_KEY=<your_gemini_api_key>
     ```

5. **Set up environment variables for the socket:**

   - Inside the `socket` folder, create a `.env` file with the following content:
     ```
     SOCKET_PORT="5050"
     CLIENT_HOST=<your_client_host> # Default for create-react-app: "http://localhost:3000"
     ```

6. **Install and start the socket server:**

   - Open a terminal in the `socket` directory.
   - Run the following commands:
     ```bash
     npm install
     node index.js
     ```

7. **Install and start the Express server:**

   - Open another terminal in the `server` directory.
   - Run the following commands:
     ```bash
     npm install
     node index.js
     ```

8. **Install and start the client application:**
   - Open a terminal in the `client` directory.
   - Run the following commands:
     ```bash
     npm install
     npm start
     ```

## App Usage Instructions

1. **Signup and login:**

   - Create an account using the signup form.
   - If you have an account click on get started and login with your credentials.

2. **Post an idea:**

   - After logging in, post an idea to receive recommendations generated by Gemini.

3. **Connect with people:**
   - Once recommendations are generated you can send a connection request using the matched users sections or you can click on the user image to view their profile and send a connection request from there.
